= Nokogiri

* http://nokogiri.org/
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/wikis
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/tree/master
* http://groups.google.com/group/nokogiri-talk
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/issues

== DESCRIPTION:

Nokogiri (鋸) is an HTML, XML, SAX, and Reader parser.  Among Nokogiri's
many features is the ability to search documents via XPath or CSS3 selectors.

XML is like violence - if it doesn’t solve your problems, you are not using
enough of it.

== FEATURES:

* XPath support for document searching
* CSS3 selector support for document searching
* XML/HTML builder
* Drop in replacement for Hpricot (though not bug for bug)

Nokogiri parses and searches XML/HTML very quickly, and also has
correctly implemented CSS3 selector support as well as XPath support.

Here is a speed test:

  * http://gist.github.com/24605

Nokogiri also features an Hpricot compatibility layer to help ease the change
to using correct CSS and XPath.

== SUPPORT:

The Nokogiri mailing list is available here:

  * http://groups.google.com/group/nokogiri-talk

The bug tracker is available here:

  * http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/issues

The IRC channel is #nokogiri on freenode.

== SYNOPSIS:

  require 'nokogiri'
  require 'open-uri'
  
  # Get a Nokogiri::HTML:Document for the page we’re interested in...

  doc = Nokogiri::HTML(open('http://www.google.com/search?q=tenderlove'))
  
  # Do funky things with it using Nokogiri::XML::Node methods...

  ####
  # Search for nodes by css
  doc.css('h3.r a.l').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end
  
  ####
  # Search for nodes by xpath
  doc.xpath('//h3/a[@class="l"]').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end
  
  ####
  # Or mix and match.
  doc.search('h3.r a.l', '//h3/a[@class="l"]').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end


== REQUIREMENTS:

* ruby 1.8 or 1.9
* libxml2
* libxml2-dev
* libxslt
* libxslt-dev

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install nokogiri

== DEVELOPMENT:

Developing Nokogiri requires racc and frex.

* rake install:deps
* rake test

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 - 2009:

* {Aaron Patterson}[http://tenderlovemaking.com]
* {Mike Dalessio}[http://mike.daless.io]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
