= Nokogiri (鋸)

* http://nokogiri.rubyforge.org/
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/wikis
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/tree/master
* http://rubyforge.org/mailman/listinfo/nokogiri-talk
* http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/issues

== DESCRIPTION:

Nokogiri はHTMLやXMLやSAXやXSLTやReaderのパーサーです。Nokogiri はドキュメント
をXPath と CSS3 セレクター経由で検索する機能が特徴のひとつ。

XMLは暴力に似ている - XMLが君の問題を解決しないとしたら、君はXMLを十分に
使いこなしていない事になる。

== FEATURES:

* XPath による探索
* CSS3 のセレクターによる探索
* XML/HTMLのビルダー

XML/HTMLの高速な解析と探索検索、ならびにCSS3セレクタとXPathをサポートしています。

スピードテスト：

  * http://gist.github.com/24605

また、NokogiriはHpricot互換の特徴を持ち、CSSやXPathも簡単に取り扱うことが出来ます。

== SUPPORT:

Nokogiriのメーリングリスト:

  * http://rubyforge.org/mailman/listinfo/nokogiri-talk

バグ報告:

  * http://github.com/tenderlove/nokogiri/issues

IRCのチャンネルはfreenodeの #nokogiri です。

== SYNOPSIS:

  require 'nokogiri'
  require 'open-uri'
  
  doc = Nokogiri::HTML(open('http://www.google.com/search?q=tenderlove'))
  
  ####
  # Search for nodes by css
  doc.css('h3.r a.l').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end
  
  ####
  # Search for nodes by xpath
  doc.xpath('//h3/a[@class="l"]').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end
  
  ####
  # Or mix and match.
  doc.search('h3.r a.l', '//h3/a[@class="l"]').each do |link|
    puts link.content
  end


== REQUIREMENTS:

* ruby 1.8 or 1.9
* libxml2
* libxml2-dev
* libxslt
* libxslt-dev

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install nokogiri

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 - 2009:

* {Aaron Patterson}[http://tenderlovemaking.com]
* {Mike Dalessio}[http://mike.daless.io]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
